>> Sarah Drasner: All right,
we're going to cover Vuex very quickly.
Vuex is definitely one thing that
we can get into the weeds on, and
I would prefer if we didn't because
this is an introductory course.
I think the more we kind
of go into edge cases,
and crazy other things,
the less people might understand.
So, we're going to go over
the basic functionality of VueX and
how to get going and how to get started.
And how to create a centralized store for
your application so
that you can get going using it for
your application if you need to.
But before we talk about all of that
stuff, let's talk about what VueX is.
So what is VueX?
If you haven't worked with something like
Redux before you might not understand or
not have an idea of what this might do.
You might see that in our components and
in our application we're passing
things like props between components.
We're passing things like
events between components and
sometimes we have these,
we're passing things from parent to child.
But sometimes we have a lot
of sibling communication and
sometimes we have a lot of shared
state across an application.
So this is really, VueX is really nice
to create a centralized store for
sharing data and logic or
even shared methods and async values.
But this is for
probably larger applications,
it's not for a tiny thing like the things
that we've been building so far today.
We have unidirectional data flow, so
that's a really nice thing because we
keep things from becoming really,
really convoluted.
It's influenced by Flux application
architecture, which is similar to Redux.
It's very, very similar to Redux.
It's basically a Vue's version of Redux.
You can use Redux, if you would like.
Vue is compatible with Redux.
So if you're really married to Redux, or
you're bringing it into
an application where for some reason,
you have Vue and React in the same
application, you could do that.
But I really suggest
that if you're using Vue,
you should use Vuex because Vuex is
built and created for a Vue application.
So if there are updates in
the future in either direction,
let's say Redux shifts path,
and goes in another direction.
You kinda know that VueX is always
gonna move alongside of VueX and so
that kind of keeps everything very stable.
Why would we use something like Vue X?
In a complex single page application,
passing state between many different
components and especially deeply nested or
sibling components can get
complicated really quickly.
So having one centralised
place to access your data
can really help you stay organized.
A lot of times when people say,
when should you introduce VueX?
People say, you just know.
That's true, [LAUGH] technically, you kind
of get to a point in your application
logic where you're like,
this doesn't make sense anymore,
I really need to be moving
into a centralized store.
But it doesn't explain very much, so let's
kind of go into this a little bit more.
Multiple instances of children and
siblings communicating and just kind of
all over the place, but sharing the same
types of logic across the application.
Or one nice thing about
keeping it in a centralized store is
it's kind of self-documenting in a way.
There are other ways of
sharing logic between and
events between different component.
One we didn't cover
today was an event bus,
we could do that with
an event bus as well.
But event buses can kind of be
a in a bunch of different places.
If you have one centralized state store,
you have it in one place, you can
kind of understand, here is my state, here
are the ways that I'm getting that state.
Here are the ways that
I'm mutating that state,
and here are the ways that
I'm using it asynchronously.
And you have it in one kind of place that
you can access and kind of keep organized.
So that's something that I
particularly like about it.
It is not a replacement for
single component methods.
If you have a single component and
you've got some state in there, and
you're using methods on the component,
don't put that into a store.
Or don't start introducing VueX to
handle that single components logic.
That's not a good use for VueX.